Examples in Documentation (#4)
Psychedelic/cap-docs: docs/integrate-cap/motoko-sdk.md

---
date: "1"
---
# ⚡ Integrating CAP - Motoko-based Projects
## ⚡ Integrating CAP - Motoko-based Projects

To integrate CAP, a Token or NFT must use the **CAP Motoko SDK/Library**. A development kit we created to facilitate the integration of **new or existing projects written in Motoko**.

- Visit [CAP Motoko Library](https://github.com/Psychedelic/cap-motoko-library)
- CAP's Mainnet canister: `lj532-6iaaa-aaaah-qcc7a-cai`

-----

The following guide will take you through creating a sample project (NFT/Token) that uses **CAP for its event history**. It will create a simple token that registers with CAP and then submits and retrieves events. It is recommended that you read the CAP specifications to understand how CAP works. 

- **That can be found here **https://github.com/Psychedelic/cap/tree/main/spec

----

## 🦖 CAP Motoko Library Integration Example

> This example guides you towards deploying a Motoko-based canister that integrates CAP to have a transaction/event history, using the CAP Motoko Library to both instantiate a history in CAP for your canister, and adding the appropiate "insert" methods to send event records to CAP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example guides you towards deploying a Motoko-based canister that integrates CAP to have a transaction/event history, using the CAP Motoko Library to both instantiate a history in CAP for your canister, and adding the appropriate "insert" requests to send event records to CAP.
```

Now that we have deployed the `cap-motoko-example` we can find the Canister id in the output. So, from now on, we'll use `<Application Token Contract ID>` to refer to the `cap-motoko-example` to keep it easy to follow!

Here's an example of how the output should look like:

```sh
Deploying: cap-motoko-example
All canisters have already been created.
Building canisters...
Installing canisters...
Creating UI canister on the local network.
The UI canister on the "local" network is "<xxxxx>"
Installing code for canister cap-motoko-example, with canister_id "<Application Token Contract ID>"
Deployed canisters.
```

Copy the `<Application Token Contract ID>` because you are going to use it to send requests via the DFX CLI!

### 2. Deploy a Root History Canister in CAP

Now, we need to push our example source code to CAP! For that we have a `handshake` process that creates a new Root canister for us, with the right controller.

> For our example, we're going to use the [DFX CLI]() to call a method in our example application actor, called `init`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our example, we're going to use the [DFX CLI](https://smartcontracts.org/docs/developers-guide/cli-reference.html) to call a method in our example application actor, called `init`
```
